README.md, before:

# lightstep-action-predeploy

The `lightstep/lightstep-action-predeploy` action leverages publicly-available partner and Lightstep APIs to provide insight into the health of production service(s) during software delivery. 

This Javascript-based action can be used when a pull request is approved by GitHub reviewers and uses APIs to provide a summary of deployment risk ahead of a code change going to a production environment.

## Requirements

### GitHub
  * Repository that corresponds to a service running in a production environment
    * Github action workflow for the repository that uses the Lightstep GitHub action
    * API token(s) defined as secrets in the repository configuration settings
    * `.lightstep.yml` configuration file in root directory of repository

### Lightstep
  * Instrumented service(s) running in a production environment
    * Deployment tracking configured for the service
    * Streams created for instrumented service
    * Alerts threshold(s) defined for streams

## Usage

This action can be run on `ubuntu-latest` GitHub Actions runner.

```
    steps:  
      - name: Checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v2

      - name: Lightstep Pre-Deploy Check
        uses: lightstep/lightstep-action-predeploy
```

## Examples

TBD

## Inputs

TBD

## Outputs

* `lightstep_predeploy_md` - Markdown-formatted summary of pre-deploy checks.

## License

Apache License 2.0

Commit message:

specify and document inputs to action

README.md, after:

# lightstep-action-predeploy

The `lightstep/lightstep-action-predeploy` action provides insight into the health of production service(s) during software delivery. 

This Javascript-based action can be used when a pull request is approved by GitHub reviewers and uses APIs to provide a summary of deployment risk ahead of a code change going to a production environment.

## Requirements

### GitHub
  * Repository that corresponds to a service running in a production environment
    * Github action workflow for the repository that uses the Lightstep GitHub action
    * API token(s) defined as secrets in the repository configuration settings
    * `.lightstep.yml` configuration file in root directory of repository

### Lightstep
  * Instrumented service(s) running in a production environment
    * Deployment tracking configured for the service
    * Streams created for instrumented service
    * Alerts threshold(s) defined for streams
    * Lightstep [public API key](https://docs.lightstep.com/docs/create-and-manage-api-keys)

## Usage

This action can be run on `ubuntu-latest` GitHub Actions runner.

```
    steps:  
      - name: Checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v2

      - name: Lightstep Pre-Deploy Check
        uses: lightstep/lightstep-action-predeploy
```

## Examples

TBD

## Inputs

Inputs can be specified using any combination of a `.lightstep.yml` file in the root of the repository using the action, as inputs to the action, as environment varables.

The following are *required*:

| Action Input        | `.lightstep.yml` prop    | Env var             |
| ------------------- | ------------------------ | --------------------
| `lightstep_org`     | `organization`           | `LIGHTSTEP_ORG`     |
| `lightstep_proj`    | `project`                | `LIGHTSTEP_PROJ`    |
| `lightstep_api_key` | N/A                      | `LIGHTSTEP_API_KEY` |


## Outputs

* `lightstep_predeploy_md` - Markdown-formatted summary of pre-deploy checks.

## License

Apache License 2.0
